doc: helm.template() (#388)
grafana/tanka: docs/docs/helm.mdx

library.  
The following example shows how to extract the individual resources of the
[`grafana`](https://hub.helm.sh/charts/grafana/grafana) Helm Chart:

```jsonnet
local helm = (import "github.com/grafana/jsonnet-libs/helm-util/helm.libsonnet").new(std.thisFile);

{
  grafana: helm.template("grafana", "./charts/grafana", {
    namespace: "monitoring",
    values: {
      persistence: { enabled: true }
    }
  })
}
```

The Chart itself is required to be [vendored at a relative
path](#vendoring-helm-charts), in this case `./charts/grafana`.

> **Important:** You MUST include the `.new(std.thisFile)` part in the import.
> This is what tells Tanka where you actually call `helm.template()` from, so it
> can find your vendored Charts.

<br />

Once called, the `$.grafana` key holds the individual resources of Helm Chart as
a regular Jsonnet object that looks roughly like so:

```jsonnet
{
  cluster_role_binding_grafana_clusterrolebinding: {/* ... */},
  cluster_role_grafana_clusterrole: {/* ... */},
  config_map_grafana: {/* ... */},
  config_map_grafana_test: {/* ... */},
  deployment_grafana: {/* ... */},
  // ...
}
```

## Vendoring Helm Charts

> A core concept of Grafana Tanka is purity, which it **always yields the same

Reviewer: nit: is hermetic more correct than pure?
```suggestion
Tanka, like Jsonnet, is hermetic. It **always yields the same
```

> resources**, regardless of surroundings. This is the case, when the project is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources** when the project is
```

strictly self-contained.

Helm however keeps Charts and repository configuration somewhere around
`~/.config/helm`, which violates above requirement.

As such, we decided to only allow Helm Charts that can be found **inside the
bounds of a project**. This means, you MUST put your Charts **somewhere next to
the file that calls `helm.template()`**, so that it can be referred to using a
relative path.

### Vendor Location

Where to actually put them inside the project is up to you, but keep in mind you
need to refer to them using relative paths.

We recommend always writing libraries that wrap the actual Helm Chart, so the

> consumer does not need to be aware of it. Whether you put these into `lib/` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consumer does not need to be aware of it. Whether you put these into your local `lib/` directory or
```

> publish them on GitHub (`vendor/`) is up to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publish and vendor them into the `vendor/` directory  is up to you.
```

A library usually looks like this:

```
  /jsonnetfile.json
  /main.libsonnet
```

When adopting Helm inside it, we recommend vendoring at the top level, as such:

```diff
  /jsonnetfile.json
  /main.libsonnet
+ /charts

> + /charts/<someChart>

Reviewer 2: As discussed on Slack, the <someChart> path only being the chart name has the potential to cause conflicts as multiple charts with the same name might exist. Including the repo in the path (<someRepo>/<someChart>) would resolve that, not sure whether `tk tool charts` allows that.

Author: It does not do so at the moment. This would be a non-breaking change and can easily added in the future ;)

```

This way, you can refer to the charts as `./charts/<someChart>` from inside

> `main.libsonnet`. By keeping the Chart as close to the consumer as possible, the

Reviewer: nit: Looking at https://github.com/helm/charts and https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/getting_started/, Helm docs do not capitalize 'chart'. ```suggestion
`main.libsonnet`. By keeping the chart as close to the consumer as possible, the
```

library is kept portable.

### Charttool

Helm does not make vendoring incredibly easy. `helm pull` provides the required
plumbing, but it does not record its actions in a reproducible manner.

Tanka ships a special utility at `tk tool charts`, which automates `helm pull`:

> ```bash

Reviewer: At least for GitHub, `console` provides better syntax highlighting
```suggestion
```console
```

> # Create a chartfile.yaml in the current directory, e.g. in lib/myLibrary

Reviewer: nit: If we use `console` for highlighting, `#` denotes a root shell rather than a comment, technically `$ # comment` would be a comment.
```suggestion
$ # Create a chartfile.yaml in the current directory, e.g. in lib/myLibrary
```

Author: Not sure how I feel about this one. We use `bash` throughout our docs, and imo it renders just fine on tanka.dev, which is what matters.

Reviewer: Yeah that's fair. I'm not sure that console provides anything valuable unless you need a difference in highlighting for command output which this doesn't have. It may also GitHub Markdown specific.

$ tk tool charts init

> # Install the MySQL Chart at version 1.6.7 from the stable repository

Reviewer: nit: s/Chart/chart/, s/#/$ #/
```suggestion
$ # Install the MySQL chart at version 1.6.7 from the stable repository
```

$ tk tool charts add stable/mysql@1.6.7
```

> **Adding Charts:** To add a Chart, use the following:

Reviewer: nit: s/Chart/chart/
```suggestion
**Adding charts:** To add a chart, use the following:
```

```bash
$ tk tool charts add <repo>/<name>@<version>
```

This will also call `tk tool charts vendor`, so that the `charts/` directory is updated.

<br />

**Adding Repositories:**
By default, the `stable` repository is automatically set up for you. If you wish
to add another repository, you currently need modify `chartfile.yaml` directly
to add it:

```diff
version: 1
repositories:
  - name: stable
    url: https://kubernetes-charts.storage.googleapis.com
+ - name: grafana
+   url: https://https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
```

## Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add a topic that covers what happens if you don't have `helm` installed? People might be searching for the error message.

### opts.calledFrom unset

This occurs, when Tanka was not told where it `helm.template()` was invoked
from. This most likely means you didn't call `new(std.thisFile)` when importing `helm-util`:

```jsonnet
local helm = (import "github.com/grafana/jsonnet-libs/helm-util/helm.libsonnet").new(std.thisFile);
                                                                                 ↑ This is important
```

### Failed to find Chart

```
helmTemplate: Failed to find a Chart at 'stable/grafana': No such file or directory.
helmTemplate: Failed to find a Chart at '/home/user/stuff/tanka/environments/default/grafana': No such file or directory.
```

> Tanka failed to locate your Helm Chart on the filesystem. It looked at the

Reviewer: nit: s/Chart/chart/
```suggestion
Tanka failed to locate your Helm chart on the filesystem. It looked at the
```

relative path you provided in `helm.template()`, starting from the directory of
the file you called `helm.template()` from.

> Please check there is actually a valid Helm Chart at this place. Referring to

Reviewer: nit: s/Chart/chart/
```suggestion
Please check there is actually a valid Helm chart at this place. Referring to
```

---
name: "Helm support"
route: "/helm"
menu: Advanced features
---

# Helm Support

The [Helm](https://helm.sh) project is the biggest ecosystem of high quality,
well maintained application definitions for Kubernetes.

Even though Grafana Tanka uses the [Jsonnet language](/jsonnet/overview) for

> resource definition in the first place, you still have access to most of Helm.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
resource definition, you can still consume Helm resources, as described below.
```

> **Warning:** Keep in mind this feature is considered EXPERIMENTAL

## Consuming Helm Charts from Jsonnet

Helm support is provided using the
[`github.com/grafana/jsonnet-libs/helm-util`](https://github.com/grafana/jsonnet-libs/tree/master/helm-util)
library.  
The following example shows how to extract the individual resources of the
[`grafana`](https://hub.helm.sh/charts/grafana/grafana) Helm Chart:

```jsonnet
local helm = (import "github.com/grafana/jsonnet-libs/helm-util/helm.libsonnet").new(std.thisFile);

{
  grafana: helm.template("grafana", "./charts/grafana", {
    namespace: "monitoring",
    values: {
      persistence: { enabled: true }
    }
  })
}
```

The Chart itself is required to be [vendored at a relative
path](#vendoring-helm-charts), in this case `./charts/grafana`.

> **Important:** You MUST include the `.new(std.thisFile)` part in the import.
> This is what tells Tanka where you actually call `helm.template()` from, so it
> can find your vendored Charts.

<br />

> Once called, the `$.grafana` key holds the individual resources of Helm Chart as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the above example is rendered, the `$.grafana` key holds the individual resources of Helm Chart as
```

a regular Jsonnet object that looks roughly like so:

```jsonnet
{
  cluster_role_binding_grafana_clusterrolebinding: {/* ... */},
  cluster_role_grafana_clusterrole: {/* ... */},
  config_map_grafana: {/* ... */},
  config_map_grafana_test: {/* ... */},
  deployment_grafana: {/* ... */},
  // ...
}
```

## Vendoring Helm Charts

Tanka, like Jsonnet, is hermetic. It **always yields the same
resources** when the project is
strictly self-contained.

Helm however keeps Charts and repository configuration somewhere around
`~/.config/helm`, which violates above requirement.

> As such, we decided to only allow Helm Charts that can be found **inside the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To comply with this requirement, Tanka expects Helm Charts to be **inside the
```

bounds of a project**. This means, you MUST put your Charts **somewhere next to
the file that calls `helm.template()`**, so that it can be referred to using a
relative path.

### Vendor Location

Where to actually put them inside the project is up to you, but keep in mind you
need to refer to them using relative paths.

We recommend always writing libraries that wrap the actual Helm Chart, so the
consumer does not need to be aware of it. Whether you put these into your local `lib/` directory or
publish and vendor them into the `vendor/` directory is up to you.

A library usually looks like this:

```
  /jsonnetfile.json
  /main.libsonnet
```

When adopting Helm inside it, we recommend vendoring at the top level, as such:

```diff
  /jsonnetfile.json
  /main.libsonnet
+ /charts
+ /charts/<someChart>
```

This way, you can refer to the charts as `./charts/<someChart>` from inside
`main.libsonnet`. By keeping the chart as close to the consumer as possible, the
library is kept portable.

### Charttool

> Helm does not make vendoring incredibly easy. `helm pull` provides the required

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Helm by itself does not make vendoring easy. `helm pull` provides the required
```

plumbing, but it does not record its actions in a reproducible manner.

> Tanka ships a special utility at `tk tool charts`, which automates `helm pull`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Therefore, Tanka ships a special utility at `tk tool charts`, which automates `helm pull`:
```
